 The Kouga Local Municipality on Wednesday announced that it is currently searching for an “experienced, suitable, qualified and committed” individual to take over the baton from current Municipal Manager, Sidney Fadi, when his contract expires next year. At the end of September, Kouga Local Municipality Executive Mayor, Elza van Lingen, said that the Director of Public Prosecutions was considering the laying of several charges against Fadi for apparently neglecting the Humansdorp Sewage Plant, resulting in untreated sewage entering into the environment, creating a health risk to the residents of Kwananzamo.. An advert inviting applications for the post was published in the local, provincial and national media last week. The closing date for applications is 1 November 2016. Mayor  van Lingen said the contract of the current Municipal Manager would come to an end on 28 February 2017. “The new Council approved a process plan for the appointment of a Municipal Manager at our meeting on 9 September so as to ensure that this critical position is not left vacant,” she said. “The Municipal Manager is the head of the municipal administration and main the link between Council and officials, consequently, it is important to find exactly the right person for the job.” She said the successful applicant would be offered a five-year performance-based contract and would be expected to reside within the Kouga area. According to the advert, applicants must have a Bachelor degree in either Public Administration, Political Sciences, Social Sciences, Law or an equivalent, as well as a Certificate in Municipal Finance Management. A further prerequisite is five years’ experience at a senior management level, with proven successful institutional transformation in the public or private sector. Ideal candidates must also have a demonstrable advanced knowledge and understanding of relevant policies and legislation, institutional governance systems and performance management, council operations and delegation of powers, good governance, audit and risk management establishment and functionality, and budget and financial management. Leading competencies expected from candidates are strategic direction and leadership, people management, programme and project management, financial management, change management and government leadership. Core competencies required are moral competence, planning and organising, analysis and innovation, knowledge and transformation management, communication, and a focus on results and quality. Applications must be submitted on the prescribed application form, available from the Director of Administration, Monitoring & Evaluation, Thobeka Tom, at 042 200 2152. General enquiries can also be directed to her. Image: Kouga Mayor Elza Van Lingen with current Municipal Manager Sidney Fadi 