 Port Elizabeth-based security company, Metro Security Services, has occasionally been confused with the new metro police force that was launched by the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality in May this year. “Metro Security Services is actually a privately owned company, established in 2003 by Kaashief Niekerk. One will be able to differentiate between the two organisations by the uniform and the branding on our vehicles, with ours depicting a large white M,” describes the company’s Business Development Director, Rowlin Adonis. He says the company has grown exponentially over the years and has managed to distinguish itself in the market. “Being an Eastern Cape company, we understand the dynamics of the region and the different industries operating within the region. We also have teams specialising in various industries to ensure our customers get tailor-made risk solutions for their specific needs. What makes us unique is the fact that we are a diversified entity – offering guarding and cleaning services amongst others,” Adonis explains. He says private security companies work with the SAPS and have a very important role in crime prevention as well as in securing evidence for prosecution. Thus, in this current climate of increased crime, local businesses will best spend their money hiring private security. “Businesses should protect their premises from any form of crime - all businesses are susceptible to crime. Each organisation works hard to stay in existence and most businesses are not able to prevent loss of revenue due to crime by themselves.” So how does Metro Security assist their clients? The company provides security - physical guarding, close protection, event security, has strike action and K9 units; and mobile surveillance - dashcams, cabin, interior of trailer and rear mounted cameras. They also provide cleaning services to clients in commercial, industrial, retail, education, healthcare and events. In terms of technology, they assist with the installation and maintenance of CCTV’s, access control and various perimeter fencing solutions. Adonis says that in the past 12 months, Metro Security Services has reached several milestones including being awarded the Mercedes Benz East London plant security contract. “It is a culmination of hard work and our experience in the Automotive Industry, where we have clients such as WWL Logistics, Lear Corporation, Schaeffler, Imperial Logistics and Eberspacher, to mention a few, as well as contracts with Standard Bank, Eskom, Mandela Bay Development Agency, Coega Development Agency, Housing Development Agency and Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality,” he says. “We have also managed to become the leading security company in providing event security in our Metro – some recent events where we were involved include the Springbok vs Ireland test match; the Proteas vs England ODI; PSL fixtures and various concerts.” Metro Security Services can be contacted on 041 811 8499(Port Elizabeth) or 043 722 3877(East London) or visitwww.metrosecurity.co.za. 